Yeah,
in this video.
Well,
look at recording a macro and then edit in the code generated by the macro recorder.
Before you record a macro,
it's always worth thinking whether you actually need one.
For example,
there's very little point in recording a macro,
which does nothing but format your text.
You can simply create a style.
Similarly,
there's no point in creating a macro,
which does nothing but inserts,
um,
text on the page.
You can go to insert water text,
and you can save a selection to the auto text gallery and just insert your text whenever
you need it from the auto text gallery again.
You wouldn't create a macro,
which sends the same document out to several people because,
as you know,
word has a mail merge feature.
So the need for macros is really where you have something that's very labor intensive and
consists of several operations.
So we're going to take a very simple example of this.
Let's go into the Exercises folder and into Section one getting started,
and here you'll find a document called Recording a Macro.
In this example,
we're going to take the scenario where you're creating a publication but you received
documents from lots of different sources,
and some of these documents have typographic conventions,
which you don't want in your publication.
So to look at a few examples,
let's switch on hidden characters.
And first of all,
you'll notice that after every paragraph,
we've got an extra return.
And this is a habit that a lot of people have,
which tends to create too much space in a publication.
Another form of doubling up is after its sentence.
We've got two spaces instead of one,
and again that's not really necessary.
It tends to draw attention to itself in the final publication,
and then a final example of something you might want to clean up is to hyphens instead of
the EM dash character.
So we want to record a macro,
which could get rid of all those typographical quirks in one hit.
Now let's go back to the main train in Folder,
and if you remember from the last video,
we're going to be saving all our code in this,
adding,
because Adan's are essentially templates inward,
you can't double click to open it,
you right click and choose open.
Then to record the macro,
we go across the developer and click on the record macro button.
We'll leave the default name for the moment and later I'll show you how you can change that
.
And then we'll specify that we want to save it in the template.
It actually says documents based on the template.
But of course,
we're going to use our template is and adding essentially rather than a template on which
other documents are based.
When we click OK,
we go into recording mode and you'll notice that the cursor changes.
And if you click with the left or right mouse,
nothing happens.
So when you recording the macro or cursor movement has to be done with the keyboard,
um selection has to be done with the keyboard and so forth.
So now we can go across to the home tab and use the replace command or,
of course,
speaker type control age.
So let's deal with the problem of two returns after every paragraph.
If we expand by clicking on the more button at the bottom.
Here we have the special pop up menu and right at the top paragraph mark.
So this code stands for a paragraph Markle Carriage return So we're looking for two of
those in succession,
and wherever we find that,
we want to replace it with a single paragraph mark.
That's our first replace all.
Now let's deal with two spaces.
After a sentence,
sentences can end with full stop close in parenthesis.
Question mark exclamation mark in a neat way of catering for all these different
possibilities would be to use a regular expression.
I don't know if you've come across regular expressions,
but since they were little complicated,
I don't want to get sidetracked for a multi doing,
which is recording that Cruz.
So we're going to do it in the most simple manner,
which is to do four separate replace operations.
So,
first of all,
we'll start with full stop all period,
as they say in the States.
Two spaces replaced with full stop single space.
Replace all next we'll have close in parenthesis.
Two spaces closing parenthesis,
single space.
Replace all question marks based space question mark one space and finally will do.
Exclamation mark.
Two spaces,
exclamation mark one space.
Replace all The fact that we're not finding anything is irrelevant.
All we want to do is to record the operation and the results we get will depend on the
document that's active.
When we run the macro,
the final change we want to make is an em dash.
We want to hyphens to be replaced with an em dash.
Now there is a short cut for doing this,
which we could use its control,
Ault and hyphen.
And it's got to be the hyphen on the numeric keypad.
Not on the main area of the keyboard,
however,
let's pretend,
but we've for gotten a short cut,
so we need to actually copy an em dash and paste it into the fine and replace.
If we did that,
we would actually record those steps so would have some extra editing to do before our
macro is usable.
However,
you probably noticed that there's a nice feature.
Let's just cancel this on the developer tab,
which allows you to pause the recording so you can pause it for as long as you like.
Go away and do something else.
Maybe someone's asking you to do some work in excel,
so you switch across.
Then when you're ready.
If you could remember where you got to,
you just hit the resume record a button and you're back in business.
So to get our em dash,
let's say we're going to insert symbol,
more symbols and special characters,
and here it is at the top,
so we'll just insert it close and put it on the clipboard.
We can't do a right click,
so it's control.
See,
or X would be better because we don't really want it.
So I'm just going to do it by going to home and hit in the cut icon.
Now,
before we go any further,
we go to develop resume recorder,
and now we can do our final replace operation.
So it's two hyphens in the find what and paste our M dash into the replace with box.
Replace all,
click OK,
and that's our final operations that we can now stop recording.
So we've got the macro recorded in our adding we can now save those changes,
closed the adding,
and let's go back into Section one getting started and open the document to what we want to
apply the macro.
You'll probably remember from the last video that unless you save and add in in the Starter
folder,
you actually have to activate it each time you launch word.
So we go to file options at its word,
Adan's and here's the one we're after.
So we activate that.
If for any reason yours is not in the list,
simply click on add,
navigate your way to the train in Folder,
The Exercises folder,
and then just choose GCS Word.
Levy a training dot D o t m.
Now that that's activated,
when we go to developer and look at the available Mac Rose by clicking on the microbes
Barton in all active templates and documents,
you'll see Macro one.
If you remember,
that's the default name,
and we accepted it without changing it.
And then we run.
And then very quickly we've got everything cleaned up.
So single space,
after all,
sentences here,
we've got out em dash,
and we only have one return after each paragraph.
So let's close this document on.
We won't save the changes in case we need to test our macro again.
Let's move back into the main exercises folder and look at edit in the macro we've created
.
So we need to right click and open and to edit macros in the developer tab,
you click on the visual basic button.
Mac rose a store in modules these various modules will be using to store the macron's that
will be created throughout this course above it.
We have new Mac Rose and this is the module that was automatically created by the macro
recorder.
So if we double quick it,
here's the code for macro one,
which is the macro that we recorded.
Now we're not gonna analyze the code.
You will get plenty of opportunity to analyze VB a code and to actually look at how it all
works.
So for the moment,
all we want to do is to move this code into our model and to get rid of the new Macron's
model that was automatically generated civil selected,
all and issues copy.
Move across to the model for this section.
Section one,
just double click and then we'll paste in our code.
We can now get rid of new Macron's by right.
Click in and choose in.
Remove normally when you're deleting something,
if you see a warning message,
it's almost always.
Are you sure you want to delete?
You click Yes,
and it goes ahead and elites This message is different.
What?
It's actually saying is,
Is this an important model on?
Do you therefore want to export it before removing it?
Of course,
it's not an important module.
You don't want to export it.
So we ignore the default.
Yes,
let me click.
No,
the final thing will do is to rename our macro.
The rules are name in your macro bar that you can't new spaces.
You can use letters,
numbers and under school,
but you can't start with a number.
The convention that will be using its festival.
Which section we in?
So we're in Section 01 Which video tutorial is this It 05 and then which macro?
It's our first,
so we'll call it a.
Then we can put a short description.
And let's call this one clean up text because we're not allowed to use spaces.
Capitalizing the first letter in each word makes the name easy to read,
and that's it.
So we could now save our template,
and we can refer back to that code anytime we need it.
When recording macros left and right mouse clicks are not allowed,
you can pause and resume macro recording at any time.
Macron's that you record a placed in a module called Numac rose in the document or template
that you specify